README.md, before:

# RL Swarm

TODO

## Requirements

Ensure you that you are using a supported machine/device/environment:

- arm64 or x86 CPU with minimum 16gb ram

OR

- CUDA devices (officially supported):
    - RTX 3090
    - RTX 4090
    - A100
    - H100

WITH

-  Python >=3.10 (for Mac, you will likely need to upgrade)


## Instructions:

### Run the swarm

```sh
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
./run_rl_swarm.sh
```

### Testnet participation

Please answer 'Y' (or just press enter), N is provided as an alternative flow but isn't currently maintained.


### Login

1. A browser window will pop open (you'll need to manually navigate to http://localhost:3000/ if you're on a VM).
2. Click 'login'.
3. Login with your preferred method.

### Huggingface

Optionally pair your HF account by using your HF token - [more here](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/security-tokens).

### Initial peering and training

From this stage onward your device will be used to train a hyperscale machine learning system. You should see your peer register and vote on-chain [here](https://gensyn-testnet.explorer.alchemy.com/address/0x2fC68a233EF9E9509f034DD551FF90A79a0B8F82?tab=logs).


## Troubleshooting

- **My model doesn't seem to be training?**
    - If you're using a consumer device (e.g. a MacBook), it is likely just running slowly - check back in 20 minutes.
- **Logging in with a new account after previous login?**
    
    - Make sure you click 'Logout' on the login screen before you leave your previous session
    - Make sure you delete `swarm.pem` from the root directory (try `sudo rm swarm.pem`). If you don't do this, and you previously registered with the peer-id stored in this file, it will disrupt the training process.
- **Issues on VMs?**

    - **How do I access the login screen if I'm running in a VM?**: port forwarding. Add this SSH flag: `-L 3000:localhost:3000` when connecting to your VM. E.g. `gcloud compute ssh --zone "us-central1-a" [your-vm] --project [your-project] -- -L 3000:localhost:3000`
    - **Disconnection/general issues**: If you are tunneling to a VM and suffer a broken pipe, you will likely encounter OOM or unexepected behaviour the first time you relaunch the script. If you `control + c` and kill the script it should spin down all background processes. Restart the script and everything should work normally.
- **Issues with npm/general installation?**

    - Try  `npm install -g node@latest`

- **OOM errors on MacBook?**
    - Try this (experimental) fix to increase memory:
        ```
        export PYTORCH_MPS_HIGH_WATERMARK_RATIO=0.0
        ```
- **I have multiple GPUs on one machine, can I run multiple peers?**: Yes - but you'll need to manually change things. You'll need to isolate each GPU, install this repo for each GPU, and expose each peer under a different port to pass the modal onboard.

- **My round/stage is behind the smart contract/other peers?**: This is expected behaviour given the different speeds of machines in the network. Once your machine completes it's current round, it will move to the the current round.

## Swarm UI
To launch the Swarm UI, run `docker-compose up --build` and open `0.0.0.0:8080` in your browser.

See the [web/README](./web/README.md) for more details.

Commit message:

Adding FAQ bullet on how to change model user may way to run.

README.md, after:

# RL Swarm

TODO

## Requirements

Ensure you that you are using a supported machine/device/environment:

- arm64 or x86 CPU with minimum 16gb ram

OR

- CUDA devices (officially supported):
    - RTX 3090
    - RTX 4090
    - A100
    - H100

WITH

-  Python >=3.10 (for Mac, you will likely need to upgrade)


## Instructions:

### Run the swarm

```sh
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
./run_rl_swarm.sh
```

### Testnet participation

Please answer 'Y' (or just press enter), N is provided as an alternative flow but isn't currently maintained.


### Login

1. A browser window will pop open (you'll need to manually navigate to http://localhost:3000/ if you're on a VM).
2. Click 'login'.
3. Login with your preferred method.

### Huggingface

Optionally pair your HF account by using your HF token - [more here](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/security-tokens).

### Initial peering and training

From this stage onward your device will be used to train a hyperscale machine learning system. You should see your peer register and vote on-chain [here](https://gensyn-testnet.explorer.alchemy.com/address/0x2fC68a233EF9E9509f034DD551FF90A79a0B8F82?tab=logs).


## Troubleshooting

- **My model doesn't seem to be training?**
    - If you're using a consumer device (e.g. a MacBook), it is likely just running slowly - check back in 20 minutes.
- **Logging in with a new account after previous login?**
    
    - Make sure you click 'Logout' on the login screen before you leave your previous session
    - Make sure you delete `swarm.pem` from the root directory (try `sudo rm swarm.pem`). If you don't do this, and you previously registered with the peer-id stored in this file, it will disrupt the training process.
- **Issues on VMs?**

    - **How do I access the login screen if I'm running in a VM?**: port forwarding. Add this SSH flag: `-L 3000:localhost:3000` when connecting to your VM. E.g. `gcloud compute ssh --zone "us-central1-a" [your-vm] --project [your-project] -- -L 3000:localhost:3000`
    - **Disconnection/general issues**: If you are tunneling to a VM and suffer a broken pipe, you will likely encounter OOM or unexepected behaviour the first time you relaunch the script. If you `control + c` and kill the script it should spin down all background processes. Restart the script and everything should work normally.
- **Issues with npm/general installation?**

    - Try  `npm install -g node@latest`

- **OOM errors on MacBook?**
    - Try this (experimental) fix to increase memory:
        ```
        export PYTORCH_MPS_HIGH_WATERMARK_RATIO=0.0
        ```
- **I have multiple GPUs on one machine, can I run multiple peers?**: Yes - but you'll need to manually change things. You'll need to isolate each GPU, install this repo for each GPU, and expose each peer under a different port to pass the modal onboard.

- **My round/stage is behind the smart contract/other peers?**: This is expected behaviour given the different speeds of machines in the network. Once your machine completes it's current round, it will move to the the current round.

- **I want to use a bigger and/or different model in the RL swarm, can I do that?**: Yes - but we only recommend doing so if you are comfortable manually changing files and appropriately configuring the model(s) you wish to run for your device(s). You'll simply need to edit the config file in `./hivemind_exp/configs/<directory_relevant_to_your_device>/grpo-qwen-2.5-0.5b-deepseek-r1.yaml` to reflect the model_name_or_path and training arguments corresponding to what you want in the swarm. Note that, although any pre-trained LLM compatible with Hugging Face's `AutoModelForCausalLM` class should work in theory, we have only tested with a handful of Qwen 2.5 instruction-tuned models. 

## Swarm UI
To launch the Swarm UI, run `docker-compose up --build` and open `0.0.0.0:8080` in your browser.

See the [web/README](./web/README.md) for more details.
